# API-SKULL-as-Begginer
 API REST skeleton written on JavaScript using async/await. Great for building a starter web API for your front-end (Android, iOS, Vue, react, angular, or anything that can consume an API)  This project is created to help other developers create a basic REST API in an easy way with Node.js.


Features
Multiple environment ready (development, production)
Custom email/password user system with basic security and blocking for preventing brute force attacks.
Compressed responses.
Secured HTTP headers.
CORS ready.
Cache ready (Redis).
HTTP request logger in development mode.
i18n ready (for sending emails in multiple languages).
User roles.
Pagination ready.
User profile.
Users list for admin area.
Cities model and controller example.
Login access log with IP, browser and country location (for country it looks for the header cf-ipcountry that CloudFlare creates when protecting your website).
API autogenerated documentation by Postman.
API collection example for Postman.
Testing with mocha/chai for API endpoints.
NPM scripts for cleaning and seeding the MongoDB database.
NPM script for keeping good source code formatting using prettier and ESLint.
Use of ESLint for good coding practices.
Mailer example with Nodemailer and Mailgun.
Ability to refresh token
JWT Tokens, make requests with a token after login with Authorization header with value Bearer yourToken where yourToken is the signed and encrypted token given in the response from the login process.


Requirements
Node.js 10+
MongoDB 3.6+
Redis 5.0+

Setting up environments (development or production)
In the root this repository you will find a file named .env.example
Create a new file by copying and pasting the file and then renaming it to just .env
The file .env is already ignored, so you never commit your credentials.
Change the values of the file to your environment (development or production)
Upload the .env to your environment server(development or production)
If you use the postman collection to try the endpoints, change value of the variable server on your environment to the url of your server, for development mode use http://localhost:3000


To ensure the deliverability of emails sent by this API, Mailgun is used for mailing users when they sign up, so if you want to use that feature go sign up at their website https://www.mailgun.com


How to run
Database cleaning and seeding samples
There are 3 available commands for this: fresh, clean and seed.

npm run command
fresh cleans and then seeds the database with dynamic data.
clean cleans the database.
seed seeds the database with dynamic data.
Running in development mode (lifting API server)
npm run dev
You will know server is running by checking the output of the command npm run dev

****************************
*    Starting Server
*    Port: 3000
*    NODE_ENV: development
*    Database: MongoDB
*    DB Connection: OK
****************************
Running tests
It´s a good practice to do tests at your code, so a sample of how to do that in mocha/chai is also included in the /test directory

npm run test
Formatting code
Format your code with prettier by typing:

npm run format
Formatting markdown files
Format all your markdown files with remark by typing:

npm run remark
Linting code
Lint your code with ESLint by typing:

npm run lint
Usage
Once everything is set up to test API routes either use Postman or any other api testing application. Default username/password combination for login is admin@admin.com/12345.

API documentation
https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/487539/RWaHwoLV

Postman API example collection
You can import the example collection to Postman. To import, click the import button located and select postman-example.json located within the root directory.

Go to manage environments to create environments for development, production, etc. On each of the environments you create you will need to:

Create a new key authToken and within the /login request this value is automatically updated after a successfull login through a script located in the tests tab. Each time you make a request to the API it will send Authorization header with the token value in the request, you can check this on the headers of users or cities endpoints in the Postman example.

Create a second key server with the url of your server, for development mode use http://localhost:3000

This is a REST API, so it works using the following HTTP methods:

GET (Read): Gets a list of items, or a single item
POST (Create): Creates an item
PATCH (Update): Updates an item
DELETE: Deletes an item
Creating new models
If you need to add more models to the project just create a new file in /app/models/ and it will be loaded dynamically.

Creating new routes
If you need to add more routes to the project just create a new file in /app/routes/ and it will be loaded dynamically.

Creating new controllers
When you create a new controller, try to also create another folder with validations and helpers. Ex. /countries, /countries/validators and /countries/helpers. An example of this is included in the repository.

